Chase Griffith & Garrett Russell

04/21/23

Machine Learning\\
PLEDGED

ABSTRACT: Stable Diffusion (SD) is a form of an Artificial Intelligence
model that works on latent space of images to create a “new” image based
on a text prompt. This presentation goes over the specifics of how SD
works, as well as the potential legal ramifications of its rapid and
widespread adoption by the general public. Using a case example from
Google vs. Authors Guild as a basis for a prediction of the court case
Class Action lawsuit v. Stability AI LTD., Midjourney INC. DeviantArt,
INC. We explain the details of SD including how it generates new images
and how it gathered its training and test data sets. In particular, we
focus on the Large-scale Artificial Intelligence Open Network (LAION)
dataset. We discuss how this might affect the field of AI as it relates
to consumer products. We also discuss the legality of SD and LAION as it
relates to copyright law. The results of our studies are that SD and
LAION are most likely going to be found guilty of some sort of copyright
infringement, but not on a large enough scale to shut the entire project
down. We think that this is due to the fact that SD and LAION are
open-sourced projects, and their terms of service can somewhat protect
them from major ramifications. Despite the protections, the copyright
infringement and profit off of the infringement are too vast to have no
repercussions. We advise people to use these tools as they should be
used: as a tool, not as a means of profit.

References:

Beaumont R. (March 2023). LAION-5B: A NEW ERA OF OPEN LARGE-SCALE
MULTI-MODAL DATASETS. URL:
[[https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/][_https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/_]]

Rath S. (March 2023) Stable Diffusion - A New Paradigm in Generative AI.
URL:
[[https://learnopencv.com/stable-diffusion-generative-ai/][_https://learnopencv.com/stable-diffusion-generative-ai/_]]

Authors Guild v. Google, Inc., No. 13-4829 (2d Cir. 2015) URL:
[[https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/ca2/13-4829/13-4829-2015-10-16.html][_https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/ca2/13-4829/13-4829-2015-10-16.html_]]

Sarah Andersen, Kelly McKernan, Karla Ortiz v. Stability AI LTD,
Stability AI, INC. Midjourney, INC. DeviantArt, Inc. (January 2023) URL:
[[https://stablediffusionlitigation.com/pdf/00201/1-1-stable-diffusion-complaint.pdf][_https://stablediffusionlitigation.com/pdf/00201/1-1-stable-diffusion-complaint.pdf_]]
